Now we're going to start writing code straight up as our first exercise.
We'll try to capture this tag title, the one we see up here on the website Video School Learn creative
skills with top rated online courses.
That's what we want to capture.
So we right click on a blank space, click on inspect and search in head because that's where the title
shown in the tag is.
So we expand the head tag to see what we're going to search and we'll find it here.
Title is the tag containing the text we want to capture.
Let's go to Python to start writing.
We'll store our search result in a variable.
Its name can be result.
Result will be equal to a search result.
And that's why we imported the requests library, which we will call right now.
We put requests and call the get method.
What arguments does get require?
It requires us to enter the site from which we want to collect information.
We have to enter the website link as a string.
So let's go here and copy and go back to Python and let's add quotes so as to have everything this variable
requires.
If you get an error after doing this check, if your firewall is preventing Python from accessing the
internet, you should take care of that so Python can search for stuff on the Internet.
Okay, now we're going to see what this result variable is, which contains search results from a website.
So let's print the type of result to see what we get.
Let's execute and we see that result belongs to the requests model response class.
It is the answer to a question.
That's what result contains.
But what does result contain?
Well, let's remove type and apply dot text, which is a property of result as it is an object from
requests.
If we want to see the text of result will bump into that.
This whole text, which is in fact is inside the source code of the link we passed before.
So bear in mind that what you're looking at here is a string.
It was returned in string format.
So in order to look for the objects present in this HTML code, we have to start parsing that is converting
the string data to a data type we need in order to web scrape.
Now we'll need to use the beautiful soup library which will allow us to scan all this text to spot the
elements we're looking for.
It's like we're regarding HTML code as a soup full of different ingredients, and through this library
we'll be able to identify all the elements or ingredients combined in this soup.
So let's create a variable named soup which will be equal to B.
S four.
Then we have to choose beautiful soup.
Once again, this will require two things.
First, it requires the string we want to convert to a beautiful soup element.
That string is in result text, which is the text we just saw and which is still in our console.
Second, we have to enter the code that tells Python what we're going to use in order to pass this HTML
code.
We'll type HTML dot parser between quotes.
Now we'll start to print the contents of soup, which is no longer a string but an object of type beautiful
soup.
This object includes the conversion of the string to an object with which we can scan the text so we
execute it.
And there's that block of text again.
But it's organized differently.
Although it looks like a string, we can access its elements and that's what we're going to do.
If instead of printing soup, we print soup dot select, which is a method of the beautiful soup objects.
We can choose a specific tag and print it.
In this case, we want the title of the title tag.
So we put the title string, which is the name of the tag.
And if we execute this, look what we receive.
Opening Tag.
Contents.
Closing Tag.
The notice that this is inside a list.
That's why we have square brackets at the beginning and the end.
Why?
Because we'll have different results depending on the tag that we search for.
Some tags appear several times in one HTML code, and so they will be stored in list format.
If we had looked for a paragraph tag, remember we use P, we would have gotten a list containing a
lot of paragraph elements.
Here we have numerous elements and if we want to know how many there are, we put Len close brackets,
execute it and we'll see the exact number of paragraph this list contains.
So let's undo.
And now we'll look for H one, which is another type of tag we execute.
And here we have a list containing two elements.
But if we want the title again, not as a list but as an isolated element, we should adopt the methods
we use with lists.
For instance, I want to see the index zero of this list.
As a result, I'll get rid of the square brackets and get a tag instead.
So imagine that I don't want to see this as a tag, but as a text.
In order to get rid of the tags, I have to apply the get text method.
This allows me to simply obtain a text which contains that element of the list.
So let's suppose now that I want this paragraph, the one reading one on one support.
Well, I know this is an element of type paragraph, so I'll go back here and state that I want to select
the list of all the PE elements which are paragraphs, and then I'll execute it.
Now I have to pick one of all those elements and I already did some calculations.
So I know that I'm interested in a paragraph in index six of this list.
So I'll call index six.
I just got this element, but I want to remove its tags so I'll apply the get text method with brackets
now and I'll print it again and I here have the exact value that I wanted.
Finally, I want to store this in a variable which will be my underscore p.
I'll copy the elements in print, paste them in my underscore P.
I'll type my underscore P in print and execute this.
And it works just fine.
So that's how we apply beautiful soup and request to get a specific object from our HTML code and convert
it into an object which we can manipulate inside our code.
So this is all for now, but our next lesson will continue to use these tools in order to develop some
amazing concepts.
So I'll see you there.